‎My name is Faustino Camacho Quispe.
‎My family and I speak Quechua or,
‎as we say, runa simi
‎—the language of the people.
‎We live in an agricultural community
‎in the mountains of Peru.
‎Our way of life depends on farming.
‎We grow crops such as corn,
‎potatoes, wheat,
‎and quinoa.
‎We also raise a small amount of livestock.
‎Many people who speak Quechua
have moved to larger cities,
‎but others, like us, still enjoy
‎a more traditional way of life in the country.
‎My family and I are Jehovah’s Witnesses.
‎Most of our brothers and sisters in this area
‎would never have been able to learn the truth
‎had there not been anyone
sent here to preach in Quechua.
‎In 1992,
‎the Peru branch office began to expand
‎the work in the Quechua-language field.
‎In order to reach
those living in isolated areas,
‎zealous brothers and sisters
climbed narrow roads
‎in the frigid elevations
of the Andes Mountains.
‎Great efforts were made in order
‎to bring Quechua-speaking people
‎the good news in their own language.
‎The people loved having publications
in their mother tongue.
‎However, there were some challenges
‎carrying out this work.
‎One problem
was not having a good translation
‎of the Holy Scriptures in Quechua.
‎The commonly used translations here in Peru
‎omit God’s name in the main text.
‎It can be found
in the glossary of some Bibles,
‎and sometimes
we used that in order to preach.
‎But even so,
it didn’t have the same impact
‎as seeing it in its proper place.
‎That, along with the influence
of false doctrines,
‎made it difficult for us to teach the truth.
‎When we teach people about the Bible,
‎we want them to draw close to God;
‎we want them to become his friends.
‎But no one can be God’s friend
‎if they don’t know his name.
‎For people to be able to come to love God,
‎they have to know his name,
‎and they have to understand what it means.
‎It was difficult for us
to use the Bible at the meetings,
‎in the field ministry,
and in our family worship.
‎How could Jehovah’s great name be sanctified
‎throughout this mountainous region?
‎How could the Quechua people
get to know God
‎when his name was hidden?
‎The answer to our prayers
came when Quechua congregations
‎throughout the country
were invited to a special program
‎on May 1, 2016.
‎Imagine the great joy we felt
when Brother Jackson
‎of the Governing Body
announced the release
‎of the New World Translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures
‎in two Quechua languages!
‎Language number 136:
‎It’s the Christian Greek Scriptures
‎in Quechua Ayacucho!
‎But we also have number 137:
‎It’s Quechua Cuzco!
‎What a wonderful gift we’ve received today!
‎This new Quechua Bible
‎is a grand victory for Jehovah’s great name.
‎God’s name is no longer hidden
from the Quechua people,
‎giving them the precious opportunity
‎to come to know our loving Creator, Jehovah.
‎I feel proud to use our new Bible to teach
‎my family and neighbors Jehovah’s name.
‎I am thankful every day
‎that Jehovah sent
this good news to the mountains
‎to us who speak runa simi
‎—the language of the people.